Purpose and goals
The purpose of the OverLunch app is to provide a convenient way for students to find a lunch companion while on the Suny Oswego campus. As such, it should function intuitively on mobile devices. 

The primary functions ( Functionators) users may expect include:
	Create an event
	Browse events	
	Join an event
		tentative join
		confirmed join
	Cancel an event
	Remove self from an event
**the above Functionator goals have been added to the SRS template document. GC 10/02

Other features users may expect (expectors) include: 
	Identify other users they would like to meet for lunch (friends list)
	A user profile page with a name, email address, and perhaps a photo
		Ability to Block users from viewing profile
	Sort/ filter displayed events
	Select a friend to see their attached events
	Users should be able to see which other users are attached to an event
		Ability to block users from seeing my events
		* need to figure out how this works if several people are attached to a meeting and one of them invites Bob while another one has blocked Bob.
	Users should be able to set default parameters for events

**the above Expector goals have been added to the SRS template document. GC 10/02
	Users should be notified of changes to any event to which they are attached.
	
Features users may not expect, but might be happy to find (excitors):
	A Favorites tag for: (Eliminating this. See below) 
		Friends (Eliminating this because it duplicates the functioon of a Friends List)
		Venues	(Eliminating this b/c there are only 13 venues. Not needed)
	A way to show the user's most common choices:(Eliminating this b/c we do not want to retain details on user movement. Google already handles this :) )
		most visited venue
		most frequent companion(s)
	Alerts when a Favorite is attached to a new event (Eliminating this b/c not doing favorites. Also b/c of the uncertainty around notifying users via a web app)
		A favorite friend creates an event
		Another user creates an event at a favorite venue (this might be overkill with a lot of users)
	User Event History (Eliminating this. Not retaining this type of data)
	Users should be able to create recurring events (Eliminating this)


List of Potential Goals
	
	
	
	
Constraints
	Intuitive user Interface (This is more of a Quality Requirement)
	Extremely mobile-friendly (because any usage on a computer is unlikely)(Also a Quality Req)
	Users must have (sign in with) an oswego.edu email address
	The app should not allow events to be scheduled outside of a venue's hours of operation

Glossary: